Gran Canaria, Doha and Las Vegas will all become more accessible this month, thanks to new flight routes being offered by Norwegian, Singapore Airlines and British Airways.

London Gatwick to Las Vegas, US with Norwegian

Starting October 31st, from £358* return

The timing of this new twice-weekly flight is perfect, because there are plenty of reasons to visit Las Vegas this autumn, including the recently revamped Aria Las Vegas, where you’ll now find personal tablets in every room. Also worth checking out is The Park, which can be found between the New York New York and Monte Carlo resorts. It’s a tree-filled landscaped area perfect for a few moments’ respite from the bright lights of The Strip. And the best bit? Sin City accommodation is no longer just about huge casino resorts - there are now a number of budget boutique hotels for visitors looking for cheap accommodation in Las Vegas. Our favourite?
Oasis at Gold Spike, which is a vintage-themed boutique hotel in the up-and-coming downtown area. Finally, don't forget that it's just a short drive to one of the most spectacular wonders of the world, the Grand Canyon.

Las Vegas

Manchester to Gran Canaria, Spain with Norwegian

Starting October 30th, from £80* return

This new route will operate twice a week. Gran Canaria is less crowded than Tenerife, but the landscape is just as spectacular. You’ll be able to clamber up the towering, barren sand dunes in Maspalomas in the south, which is also where you'll find a beautiful botanical garden. If you like your beaches rugged, head to the northern coast. The eastern side of the island attracts water sports fans – there are some great windsurfing and kitesurfing opportunities here. The biggest resorts are in the south, although the largest town, Las Palmas, is on the island’s north-western tip. Make sure you check out Columbus House, which was once the governor’s residence. The famous explorer is also believed to have stayed here.

Gran Canaria

Manchester to Houston, US with Singapore Airlines

Starting October 30th, from £395* return

There are several reasons why Texas will be in the spotlight next year. 2017 is the fiftieth anniversary of the movie Bonnie and Clyde, which was filmed predominantly in the Lone Star state. Houston is the US’s fourth most populous city, with a buzzing Museum Quarter and easy access to NASA’s Space Centre. And while travellers might well find they get less dollars for their pounds post-Brexit, a visit to Houston is unlikely to stretch the purse strings. The Downtown neighbourhood has some fantastic, wallet-friendly restaurants, including the Hubcap Grill for fresh, juicy burgers and Vietnamese delicacies at Huynh. Accommodation needn’t cost the earth either. Retail therapy addicts will love the luxurious Hotel Indigo Houston at The Galleria where rooms start from just £120 per night.

Houston

London City to Bremen, Germany with British Airways

Starting October 31st, from £281* return

Bremen is Germany’s rising star, and it’s not hard to see why. It’s a beautiful city which hugs both banks of the River Wesser. Highlights include the Dom St Petri cathedral and the UNESCO World Heritage listed Rathaus, or Town Hall, and there are also plenty of brewery tours to sign up for, including tours of the famous Becks’ brewery. Bremen is also surrounded by nature. The birdlife-filled peat bogs which encircle it attract twitchers from all over the world and the coastal roads which wind from the city along the East Frisian coast are popular with cyclists. Despite its size, Bremen has some fantastic bars and clubs. Find out which other cities have a fantastic nightlife with the help of our guide to the best places to party in Europe.

Bremen

London Heathrow to Doha, Qatar with British Airways

Starting October 31st, from £399* return

Famous for its bustling souks and spectacular Museum of Islamic Art, Doha is a both historic and modern. A shiny new Metro system (being built for the 2022 FIFA World Cup ) is under construction, too. Make sure you visit the mind-blowing Pearl-Qatar, an artificial island covering almost four million square metres. It’s where you’ll find some of Doha’s finest restaurants and boutiques, most of which are built around a Venice-like network of canals.
Keen to explore more of the Middle East? Dubai certainly has it all, and you'll be able make the most of a visit with our guide to the ten best things to do in Dubai.

Doha

